[Music]
you know I have yet to meet a person who
wouldn't want to travel on an airliner
in maximum comfort usually the solution
is simple pay tons of money and travel
first-class enjoying all the stuff they
pamper you with but how do you feel
about a low-cost airline company that
offers waterbeds and organic food wait
wait wait wait wait where are you going
no you can't buy a ticket for the next
flight you got to watch this first we
need to get back to 1973 that was the
year when self-made millionaire investor
Kenneth Moss came up with the idea of a
very unusual airline he along with his
partner Darcy Flint spent 1.5 million
dollars and one year getting a plane and
a license to operate it commercially
from the Federal Aviation Administration
besides the businessman had to receive
landing permission from major airports
unaware of all the intricacies of buying
a commercial aircraft Moss was cheated
out of 45,000 dollars wasted $125,000 on
a plane that wouldn't fly and eventually
ended up with a six year old dc-8 on his
hands this plane cost him $750,000
that's when all the fun started first
things first
Moss removed the previous airline's name
air liberation from the plane's fuselage
and replaced it with a new name free
land iya once his idea was to launch not
another commercial airline but to start
an inexpensive air travel Club after
paying a modest membership fee of $25
club members could get access to
laughably cheap flights for example a
trip from Los Angeles to Newark New
Jersey cost 87 bucks
almost two times less expensive than any
other commercial flight and if you
wanted to fly from Newark to Miami you
would save about $70 by flying with free
land iya you go from Newark to Hawaii
and the sum you save is even bigger
about 212 dollars
several times a month club members could
fly to San Francisco russell's Chicago
and Acapulco as well as many other
cities how is such a low price even
possible the trick was that free land
iya was registered as an air club not a
commercial airline thus it wasn't
subjected to all kinds of standard
commercial rates set by the Civil
Aeronautics Board but the best part
about free land iya wasn't even the
ticket price no as soon as you set your
foot inside the plane you'll immediately
felt as if you were in the middle of
some extravagant party according to some
passengers the atmosphere on board was
similar to that of some tribal
celebration during the flight passengers
were allowed to wander along the aisles
drink and listen to rock music
there were backgammon and chess boards
scattered all over the plane and in no
class sections passengers could lie down
on huge denim pillows flight attendants
were ultra bright violet uniforms and
Berets decorated with an open hand free
LAN Dias black and white insignia those
who felt sleepy could make use of
comfortable water beds during the flight
passengers could enjoy vegetarian meals
homemade soups organic breads and
cheeses as well as different drinks
including wine and beer but one of the
most unusual things about the new
airline was that the club members could
vote on the flight schedules every three
months so if one of the passengers
needed to go let's say to Paris they
only had to persuade their fellow
members to add this riff to the flight
schedule after all the airline had
landing rights in lots of places
including Colombia and Hong Kong and was
negotiating landing permissions with
India Bali Australia Greece and Turkey
the ultimate goal of free land iya was
to offer its Club members $300
round-the-world flights which usually
cost more than $1500 on commercial jets
however all the frills didn't help the
newborn airline to keep afloat
first of all after Kenneth Moss appeared
on TV the membership cost grew then
people started to get frustrated by the
airline's
formitz hand no wonder more than 85% of
the flights got canceled because not
enough people signed up for them but
most importantly the fuel price
skyrocketed after the 1973 oil crisis
which rendered such cheap flights
impossible free land iya had to go out
of business in 1974 just one year after
its launch but if you think that free
land it was the only unusual airline
company that's ever existed you might be
in for a surprise
for example Hawaiian Airlines allows
each passenger to take a pre packed box
of pineapples or papayas onboard the
plane the only condition is that the box
can't weigh more than ten pounds and
that is agriculture inspected first but
that's not even the best part if you're
heading from Hawaii to North America you
can bring this fruit box with you on the
plane completely for free now if you
love comfort write down the name lock
company that's a French airline company
that probably has every right to call
its fleet innovative planes the company
offers only business class service but
is still cheaper than that of its
competitors the airlines hub is Paris's
Orly Airport and if one day you decide
to hop on a plane in Newark New Jersey
you'll be pleasantly surprised you'll
find out that your seat reclines to a
175 degree angle and is built in massage
features mmm you'll get an anti-allergy
neck pillow and a travel care kit for
free on top of that each passenger gets
their own tablet for in-flight
entertainment you can use it to watch
news TV movies read a book or a magazine
or listen to music and when you get
hungry you'll be offered a four-course
menu your meal will begin with a starter
followed by a hot dish of your choice
and accompanied by a cheese platter and
dessert and shortly before landing
you'll also get a snack pack with three
sweet and three salty snacks Oh
sign me up Volta airlines which is known
today as US global Airways is an airline
company which hasn't flown a single
flight during its long 29
year old history it was founded in 1989
for the sole purpose of flying from New
York to Riga and Leningrad to cities of
the then Soviet Union
however it's 2019 now there is no Soviet
Union anymore and the planes of us
Global Airways are still not in the air
the airline has failed certification
test seven times in a row
and it seems that the chances are slim
that its planes will ever fly all nippon
airways co or simply a na is the largest
japanese airline if we speak about the
fleet size but that's not why it's on
this list if you're a fan of Pokemon you
can catch a theme to jet which flies
from Tokyo to Paris and from Tokyo to
Frankfurt on board this remarkable
aircraft you'll see flight attendants in
bright Pokemon aprons drink juice from a
pok Cup and enjoy the company of
painted pokemons from Pikachu and togepi
to mu and Snorlax sorry got a bit
carried away
one more airline company keen on cartoon
characters is Taiwanese international
airline EVA Air but unlike a na it's
favorite cartoon seems to be Hello Kitty
just designed in this style will
definitely make your trip unforgettable
first of all the planes look bright and
cute from the outside secondly you'll
get a Hello Kitty boarding pass
what's more the cabin crew wears Hello
Kitty uniforms toilets are supplied with
hello kitty cat litter just kidding it's
really toilet paper and you might even
find a kitty shaped dessert on your meal
tray oh and your burger will also be
stamped with the pretty kitty meow
however you can catch these themed
planes only on certain routes Taipei to
Singapore Taipei to Paris and Taipei to
Chicago in 2015 Australia's biggest
airline company Qantas Airways offered
its first class passengers gear virtual
reality headsets to entertain them on
long-haul flights you could have a
360-degree view of Qantas lounge in Los
Angeles watch runway videos of huge a380
land
or sneak a 3d peek at kakadu national
park in australia hey how about we just
get there on time hmm well would you
like to take a flight on a free land
eeeh jet let me know down in the
comments if you learned something new
today they give this video a like and
share it with a friend but hey don't go
anywhere just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life